Mechanics ideas:

Gear - Have some kind of equip slot system
    Headgear, upper body, lower body, shoes, several acessory/weapon slots

Each enemy has to be different
    Not just in how they attack you, but also in how you attack them
        Weapons need tradeoffs, cooldown times, limited charges, etc

Roguelikes are fun when you have to make decisions
    Risks - "Do I take the risk that I can do enough damage?"
            "Do I take the risk that this unknown effect/item is both positive and useful rn?"
            "Can I be greedy in the short term for something that can help me in the long term, or vice versa?"

Structured events are fun
    Shops - Slay the spire, PMD, Isacc, Gungeon
    Slay the spire quesiton marks

Resource mangement and crafting
    Alchemy - consistent source of potions
    Gear crafting
    Weapon upgrades
    Scroll and other magic item crafting
        Perhaps bad to have the player make Entads, limit to shops/loot?

    Monster parts are hard to manage - Don't love unique materials
        Could give each material a general category, and perhaps material-specific buffs like tinkers, but that's _too_ far into crafting imo
        Souls? Tie into attributes?

Quests - Meet NPCs on certain floors, fufill quest and deliver result to someone else
    Rewards - gear, materials?, xp?

Level up and numbers go up is fun
    So is gear acquisition, you want to feel powerful, and getting far into a run = high numbers
    Make sure number scale is big, 1-10 hp is hard to do, 10-100 is easier

Traps
    Hard to give players - Roguelikes are about moving around
        Would need some sort of longer action you need to buy time for without moving
    Can feel unfair
    Leave these out for now, would have to be a later addition when the rest is more solid

Inventory mangement
    What to do about old loot? old materials?
    Too many consumables?

Rooms - Need to be interesting, not just endless empty rectangles in search of the stairs
    Extra loot
    Optional harder enemies
    NPCs
    Different enviorments that can be used for combat

Run variety
    Needs to be different each run
    But needs to not be entirely random - player needs some control
    Best to present options somehow, but random options
    Needs not just run-to-run variety, but unlocks over the course of many runs
    Extra randomizers ala STS dailies or isacc challenges

    Variations of each enemy:
        SkeletonScout
        SkeletonScoutOfEctoplasm (slightly transparent)
        SkeletonScoutOfBlight

Bosses
    Maybe slightly different variations, like in hades

-------------------------

Theme planning:

What drives the player deeper in the dungeon?
    I like the idea of escape - You're _____ and _____ is taking over your life
    You feel deeper in the dungeon to escape
    Mechanically, staying on a floor too long lets them start to "catch up", where they spawn en-mass keckleon style
What is the ultimate end goal?
    Reach the bottom of the dungeon - Not an escape? You always die in the end?
        But how far you got could be an indicator of score?
        Dislike this idea, winning should be a high moment, not a low just because of story

Different charachters, all going deeper into the dungeon for different reasons (mechnically and story wise)
    One is strength driven, needs to go deeper to get stronger
    One is safety driven, needs to go deeper to escape
        Staying on a floor too long spawns a progressive horde of special enemies
        Presents both oppurunity - more Exp, special items? But also lots of risk of death
    One feels lost, needs to go deeper in hopes of finding purpose
    One is a native monster of the dungeon, and is driven by curiosity

Name of the game is "Dungeon Heart"
    Rumours of a hold/sanctuary/bastion at the bottom of the dungeon that contains all that you seek
    Maybe play into the ambiguity? Different NPCs and charachters call it different things / rumours
    Need to get to the "heart" of the dungeon

Mechanics:
    Game is about escape, trying to flee life, desperation for something different, hoping for a respite (from life / the floors of monsters)
    How to make mechanics out of this?

-------------------------

Combat planning:

Emotion based combat - Emotions are stats, but also pokemon types
Stats/skills for different emotions
Different charachters have different emotion prefrecens and such by default
NPCs have dialogue that changes your emotions
    Mechanically could be like shops or buffs or stuff
    Themtically is dialogue and story that can be skipped through
Level ups let you choose emotions to increase
    Thematically, represents chrachter development
Gear is tied into memories, and therefore emotions, primary and secondary
    Maybe emotion per gear, maybe emotion per gear per chrachter?

In addition to stats, emotions are also meters
    Not using an emotion for a while makes it more potent
    Using an emotion too much dulls it

    Using the same emotion multiple times in a row dulls it, expoentially
    Using too many positive emotions in a row dulls all of them
    Using opposite emotions in a row dulls the effect

    Using positive emotions increases all negative emotions, and vice versa
    Using an emotion directly increases it's opposite, and vice versa
    Using a string of related emotions of the same valence in a row increases the effect

    Gear can buff/debuff emotions, or provides effects based off emotion

Emotions work like pokemon types, you take less/more damage from different emotional attacks based on your emotions and aptitudes

Wording:
    Dull/Strengthen emotional intensity
    Raise/Lower emotional aptitude
    Attack with ____ emotion


Emotion represented by:
    Positive/Negative valence
    An opposite emotion of opposing valence
    (Maybe): A complementary emotion of similar valence
    Maximum "aptitude" of the emotion
    Current "intensity" of the emotion - Represented by a meter, with a "neutral strength" range in the middle, and a more/less effective ranges above/below

Refer to UI area of stats/meters as "current feelings"
    Overlay on a heart background or something?
    Maybe can do something cute using hearts as hp, and tying them together


---------------------


Joy / Sadness
Fear / Bravery
Suprise / Ready?
Trust / Distrust
Anger / Calm
Envy / Content
Love / Hate
Acceptance / ???
Annoyance / Content
Nostalgia / ??
Relieved / Anxious
Confusion / ??
Excited / Dread
Awe / Bored

Joy / Sadness
Bravery / Fear
Trust / Distrust
Love / Hate
Relief / Anxiety
Excitement / Dread
Calm / Anger


Goal:
    4 pairs of 2 each, 1 positive 1 negative valence
    All emotions should be intrinsic to oneself, and also a noun, something you can feel


--------

UI Design:

4 horizontal bars stacked up on the bottom, with 4 more opposite for 8 emotions
Hearts where?

-----------------


response to combat gh discussion:
    emotions do need uniqueness, I agree
    need to decide on items and how they work alongside this
    I like the idea of each emotion having a downside and upside
        Being above threshold means upside + downside
        Being below threshold means opposite, or smth
        Different chracheters/gear give you different intensity ranges
        Aptitude gives you stronger effect and or improves positive range?

    Maybe the only actives (outside of consumables) are:
        Each chachter has a unique abillity for each emotion
        Abillity strength ties into intensity meter
        That means all non-consumable items are passive / modify abillities uniquely, either boring or no item reuse





Using an emotion repeatly strengthens the effect, but makes it riskier at the same time (some sort of downsides you can't quite predict always)
To lower an emotion: Use an opposite valence emotion, don't use it for a bit





Run flow:
    1. Pick chrachter
    2. Chrachter comes with preset emotions that function like spells/abillities/attacks
        * Emotions have meters with intense/neutral/dull zones
        * Different emotions have different effects depending on what zone they're in
        * Using an emotion affects the meters of all your emotions (e.g., raise/lower itself, others can raise/lower, etc)
    3. After killing each boss, a random emotion is added
    4. Killing enemies gives only consumables and XP
    5. Upon leveling up
        *
    6. Passive items can be found in shops
        * These items are enhancers to your emotions
        * For instance, given Rage,
